you
this lecture is about the topic mining
and analysis we are going to talk about
the using a term as a topic this is a
slide that you have seen in an earlier
lecture where we defined the task of top
2 mining and analysis we also raised the
question how do we exactly define a
topical theta so in this lecture we're
going to offer one way to define it and
that's our initial idea our idea here is
to define your topic simply as a term a
term can be a word or a phrase and in
general we can use these terms to
describe topics so our first thought is
just to define a topic as one term for
example we might have terms like sports
travel or science as you see here now if
we define a topic in this way we can
then analyze the coverage of such topics
in each document here for example we
might want to discover to an extended
document one covers sports and we found
that 30% of the content of Takanawa is
about sports in terms and is about the
travel etc when might also discover
talking the 2 does not cover sports at
all so the coverage is 0 etc so now of
course as we discussed in the task
definition for topic mining and analysis
we have two tasks ones will discover the
topics and the second is to analyze the
coverage so let's first think about how
we can discover topics if we represent
each topic by a ton so that means we
need to mind K topical terms from a
collection now there are of course many
different ways of doing that and we're
going to talk about a natural way of the
net which is also likely effective so
first of all in the past the text data
in the collection to obtain candy data
terms here candy returned
can be words or phrases let's say the
simplest solution is to just take each
word as a tongue these words then become
candidate topics then we're going to
design your scoring function to measure
how good each term is as a topic so how
can we design such a function well there
are many things that we can consider for
example we can use pure statistics to
design such a scoring function
intuitively we would like to favor
representative terms meaning terms that
can represent a lot of content in the
collection so that would mean we want to
favor a frequent term however if we
simply use the frequency to design the
scoring function then the highest score
terms would be general terms or
functional terms like the etc those
terms occur very frequently in English
so we also want to avoid having such
words on the top so we want to penalize
such words but in general we would like
the favored terms that are fairly
frequent but not so frequent so a
particular approach could be based on
tf-idf waiting from retrieval and T f
stands for term frequency idea four
stands for inverse document frequency
and we talked about some of these ideas
in the lectures about the discovery of
water associations so these are
statistical methods meaning that the
function is defined that most of the
based on statistics so the scoring
function would be very general it can be
applied to any language in attacks but
when we apply such a approach to a
particular problem we might also be able
to leverage some domain-specific of
heuristics for example in news we might
favor title words afternoon general we
might want to favor title words because
the authors tend to use the title to
describe the topic of an article
if we're dealing with tweets we could
also favored hashtags which are invented
to denote topics so naturally hashtags
can be good candidates for representing
topics anyway after we have this
designer scoring function then we can
discover the K topical terms by simply
picking K terms with the highest scores
now of course we might encounter
situation where the high-score terms are
all very similar they are semantically
similar or closely related or even
synonyms so that's not the desired goal
so we also want to have coverage over
all the contending the traction so we
would like to remove redundancy and one
way to do that is to do a greedy
algorithm which is sometimes called
maximum marginal relevance ranking
basically the idea is to go down the
list based on our scoring function and
gradually take terms to collect the K
topical terms the first term of course
would be picked when we pick the next
term we're going to look at that what
terms have already been picked and try
to avoid picking a term that's too
similar so why we are considering the
rang ranking of a term in the list we're
also considering the redundancy of the
candidate term with respect to the terms
that we already picked and with some
threshold in them we can get balance of
the redundancy removal and also high
score of the term okay so after this
that will get K topical terms and those
can be regarded as the topics that we
discuss discovered from the connection
next let's think about how we can
compute the top of the coverage pi sub
IJ so looking at this picture we have
sports travel and signs and these topics
and now suppose you are given a document
how should we figure out the coverage of
each top
the document well one approach can be to
simply count the occurrences of these
terms so for example sports might have
occurred of four times in this document
and travel twice etc and then we can
just normalize these counts as our
estimate of the coverage probability for
each topic so in general the formula
would be to collect the counts of all
the terms that represented the topics
and then simply normalize them so that
the coverage of each topic in the
document would add to one this forms a
distribution over the topics for the
document to characterize coverage of
different topics in the document now as
always when we think about the idea for
solving a problem we have to ask the
question how good is this one is this
the best way of solving the problem
so now let's examine this approach in
general we have to do some empirical
evaluation too by using actual data sets
and to see how well it works well in
this case let's take a look at a simple
example here and we have a text document
that it's about NBA basketball game so
in terms of the content it's about the
sports but if we simply count these
words that represent our topics and
we'll find that the word sports actually
did not occur in the article even though
the content is about the sports so the
count of sports is 0 that means the
coverage of sports will be estimated as
0 now of course the term science also
did not occur in the document and it's
estimated is also 0 that's okay but
sports certainly is not okay because we
know the contents
sponsors of this estimator has a problem
what's worse the term turbo actually
occurred in the document so when we
estimate the coverage on the topic of
travel we have got a nonzero account so
it's estimated coverage would be now
zero so this obviously is also not
desirable so this simple example
illustrates some problems of this
approach first when we count what words
belong to the topic we also need to
consider related words we can't simply
just come to the top of the world sports
in this case it did not occur at all but
there are many related words like a
basketball game etc so we need to come
to related words also the second problem
is that a word night star can be
actually ambiguous so here it probably
means a basketball star but we can
imagine it might also mean a star on the
sky so in that case the star might
actual suggests perhaps a topic of
science so we need to deal with that as
well finally a main restriction of this
approach is that we have only one term
to describe this topic so it cannot
really describe complicated topics for
example a very specialized doping in
sports would be hard to describe by
using just a word or one phrase we need
to use more words so this example
illustrates some general problems with
this approach of treating a term as
topic first it lacks expressive power
meaning that it can only represent the
symbol general topics but it cannot
represent the complicated topics that
might require more words to describe
second it's incomplete in vocabulary
coverage meaning that the topic itself
is only represented as one term it does
not suggest on what other terms are
related to the topic even if we're
talking about the sports there are many
terms that are related so it does not
allow us to easily count really returns
toward conversion to
of this topic finally there's this
problem of water sense disambiguation a
topical term or relate return can be
ambiguous
for example basketball star versus star
in the sky so in the next lecture we're
going to talk about how to solve the
problem with published model of the
topic